In this exercise we're going to practice
working with modules,
by building a module, to perform some,
calculations on spheres.
In particular we're going to, write
functions to, compute the
area of a sphere, and the volume of a
sphere.
And this will give you a good idea of how
to write, modules for other geometrical
types of calculations and.
Anything else you might want to perform
calculations on as well.
So let's get started.
We're gonna call our modules sphere, dot P
Y.
The first thing were going to do, is we're
going to define, a constant PI.
There's two ways to do it.
One way would be to, put in all upper
case, to
symbolize that it's a constant, But, i'm
not really crazy about that.
It's kind of gone, out of favor to use.
All uppercase for constance so we'll, use
a regular lowercase variable pi and we'll
set it's value at 3.14159, so the next
thing we want to do is define, the area
of a sphere, and so to do that we have to
give the spheres radius, and then we
simply return the computation and that's 4
times pi times the radius squared.
And we'll just do radius, times radius,
rather
than bother to write our own separate
square function,
And then to compute the volume of a
sphere, we also take the radius as an
argument.
And we return 4 3rds.
Let's do 4.0 divided by 3.0, times Pi,
times the radius
cubed so let's make sure we get the
multiplication symbol in.
So that's radius, times radius, times
radius.
And we'll, stop there.
So let's exit and save.
The next thing we wanna do, is write a
program to test our module.
So, we'll call it spheretest.py.
We'll import, all of the name space.
We'll write import, * from sphere import*.
We'll prompt the user to enter the,
radius.
And then, we'll write print.
Make
sure we have the right number of closing
parentheses and we do.
And then we'll write print
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Let's, save.
Then we'll run it.
So
we'll say the radius, is 5.
The are is 314.159.
And the volume is, 523.598.
Alternatively, we can write our import
statement like so.
And then for our two calculations, let's
comment out the old ones, and
then copy them, and we'll paste in, get
rid of this comment right here.
And then right where we called the
function we'll have to call
it with the fully qualified name, and add
the module name in.
Like so, so
let's try it again, with the same numbers,
so
we'll enter 5 for the radius, and we get
the same result, so
in this exercise I've demonstrated another
example of how to create a module.
In this case to, compute the area and
volume
of a sphere, and then, how to import it
in.
Either using the from, sphere, import,
star technique, or if we want
to use the fully qualified name in our
calls, then we can just write
import sphere, and with that, we conclude
this chapter on working with modules.